Throughout this module, you learned the very basics about promises and fetch,
obviously you can dive deeper and in the lecture at the end of this module,
you will find some additional resources in case you are interested. However
here's one important thing I want to clear up right now, fetch and promises
do have good browser support, check that last lecture I was mentioning but they aren't supported
by all browsers, especially not by older ones.
Now as you learned, a progressive web app is about progressively adding features, so that your app is really
awesome in modern browsers but also pretty good in older ones.
Now if we use fetch and promises in our normal Javascript code, so not in the service worker which only
works on modern browsers anyways but in the code which runs on every browser, we obviously get a error
if we execute our app or run our app on an older browser.
So we have two options,
we either don't use fetch and promises there,
that's possible to an extent but if we don't use fetch, we can't intercept these fetch events here in
our service worker, so might not be the best option,
so the other option is to use polyfills, not written by me but from other authors, two very popular
polyfills for both fetch and promises.
So simply copy the two files into your Javascript folder, feel free to also copy them in other folder
if you would like to do that, I'll place them in the Javascript folder here, fetch and promise
and again this code is not written by me,
it's by third-party package authors, so basically authors of these promises. Links to the documentations
and the Github repos of these polyfills can be found in the last lecture of this module. And with these
polyfills added here,
we also have to import them,
we have to import them before we execute other code,
so prior to app.js. The first has to be promise because the fetch API uses promises and the second
therefore is the fetch.js file
and you have to add the same imports to any other page where you plan on using these features,
in my case here the help index.html file. There also you have to add it before
app.js,
so basically add them before you use them.
Now with that we're almost done, to enable
the promise API here, I have to go to the app.js file and at the very top here, I will check if
in my window, if there is a promise object which would mean that my browser natively supports promises.
If this is not the case, hence the exclamation mark, then I want to set this on my own, so window.promise
will then be equal to promise which is provided by the promise.js file.
So this enables or activates the promise polyfill
only if my browser doesn't have promises implemented
anyways. So with that, we got the polyfills added and we now ensure that this also works on older
browsers.
Now it did work in Chrome anyways, I just want to check if we get any errors here,
we don't, so that's looking great.
With that we enabled promises and the fetch API on older browsers too. Now before we continue,
let's understand how we can actually interact with our own fetch requests in the service worker.